#summary Some questions

[OpenDirector << home]

===1. Why?===
 * What's wrong with existing tools?
 * Why open source? 
 * Why not using an existing (open source) tool?

===2. What?===
 * Requirements:
  * 100% free and open source
  * 100% patent free technologies (for core app, plugins can deal with patented file/compression formats etc.)
  * easily expandable, SDK for plugins
  * support both code-based and visual development
  * nice to have: support multiple authoring concepts (e.g. both score and screen/form based)
  * support procedural and object-oriented programming
  * nice to have: support visual/dataflow programming
  * maybe: support some aspect-oriented programming?
  * pack VM/runtime engine into a self-contained executable ("projector") (unlike AIR or .NET)
  * nice to have: allow permanent installation of VM/runtime engine and thereby distribution/execution of smaller files (like shockwave projectors, JAR files, .NET, ...)
  * allow both usage of high-level cross-platform (e.g. wxWidget or GTK+ toolkit) and lower-level platform-specific (e.g. shell access, !DirectShow vs. Quartz, ...) technologies/frameworks

 * Supported patforms: 
  * Windows
  * OS X
  * Linux desirable

 * Components:
  * IDE
   * with timeline/score?
   * with screen/form management? flowchart? 
   * with asset managment?
   * with GUI builder/stage?
  * Script-Language
  * VM / Runtime Engine
  * Interpreter? Byte code compiler? JIT?
  * Plugin API
  * File Format(s)
   * different project/authoring and runtime formats (like FLA vs. SWF, DIR vs. DCR/DXR) *or* just a single format (plus ability to publish as EXE/App)?
   * (compiled) script files only (e.g. PY/PYD), with all media and other data as external files *or* compound format that integrates script, media and composition/configuration data?
   * in case of compound format:
    * IFF/RIFF based? (like DIR/DXR) [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_Interchange_File_Format]]
    * XML based, with encoded binary data, e.g. as Base64?
    * Binary XML? [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_XML]]
    * XML + external binary files as single ZIP file, like !OpenDocument (ODF) files (.odt, .odp), Office Open XML (OOXML) files or XML Paper Specification (XPS) files.

===3. How? (Architecture, Components, Technologies, Libraries/Frameworks)===
 * use existing VM / bytecode compiler (e.g. Lua VM, Python VM, Neko VM, Flash)?
  * build (score based) IDE for/on top of !HaXe/Neko?
  * build (score based) IDE for/on top of Python?
  * ceate flash wrapper for desktop apps (like zinc, but open source)?
 * IDE as extension of existing IDE (e.g. Eclipse)?
 * debatable: minimal core engine, ALL media support by plugins, *or* engine that already supports most important (patent-free) image/audio/video formats (e.g. PNG, JNG, WAV, OGG, SVG, Matroska)?
 
===4. Who?===
 * target group?
 * partners/sponsors?
 * how to convince developers to join?

===5. What else?===
 * Free software in general:
  * Free Software [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software]]
  * Free Software Portal [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Free_software]]
  * F/OSS [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open_source_software]]

 * possibly useful open source tools/components:
  * Scintilla [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scintilla_(editing_component)]]
  * Scribus [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scribus]]
  * !AbiWord [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abiword]]
  * Inkscape [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inkscape]]
  * Neko [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neko_(programming_language)]]
  * Gnash [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gnash]]
  * VLC media player [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VLC_media_player]]
  * FFmpeg [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ffmpeg]]
  * Songbird [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Songbird_(software)]]
  * Gecko [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gecko_layout_engine]]
  * !WebKit [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebKit]]

 * other interesting open source examples/models/inspirations:
  * OSFlash [[http://osflash.org/]]
  * Screenweaver HX [[http://screenweaver.org/]]
  * HippoHX [[http://hippohx.com/]]
  * MTASC [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MTASC]]
  * !FlashDevelop [[http://www.flashdevelop.org/]]
  * !FontForge [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FontForge]]
  * Blender [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blender_(software)]]
  * Xara Xtreme [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xara_Xtreme]]
  * GIMP [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIMP]]
  * Sumatra PDF [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sumatra_PDF]]
  * !WinBinder [[http://winbinder.org/]] and !WinBinder Form Editor